[USING] Add  "how to set and enable Lock Screen" (#598)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/using-wasabi/LockScreen.md

---
{
  "title": "Lock Screen",
  "description": "A feature that allows you to lock your Wasabi Wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."
}
---

# Lock Screen

The `Lock Screen` feature allows you to lock your Wasabi Wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN.

[[toc]]

:::warning Caution!
This feature is only intended to be used if you are stepping away from your computer for a very short time.

The PIN can be deleted and your wallet accessed by anyone that gets physical access to your computer and knows how to find and alter your `UIConfig.json` file.

Do not treat this feature as a strong, fail-safe lock on your wallet.
:::

## How to set the Lock Screen feature

You can active the `Lock Screen` feature by going to the menu bar on the top/left corner of your Wasabi Wallet and clicking on `Tools`.
In the resulting dropdown menu, click on `Settings`.

> ![](/LockScreenSet1.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Do we really need this screenshot? Nowhere else in the docs do we have a screenshot for it.

---
{
  "title": "Lock Screen",

>   "description": "A feature that allows you to lock your Wasabi wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "description": "A feature that allows you to lock your Wasabi Wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."
```

}
---

# Lock Screen

> The `Lock Screen` feature allows you to lock your Wasabi wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Lock Screen` feature allows you to lock your Wasabi Wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN.
```

[[toc]]

## How to set the Lock Screen feature

> You can active the `Lock Screen` feature by going to the menu bar on the top/left corner of your Wasabi wallet and clicking on `Tools`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can active the `Lock Screen` feature by going to the menu bar on the top/left corner of your Wasabi Wallet and clicking on `Tools`.
```

In the resulting dropdown menu, click on `Settings`.

![](/LockScreenSet1.png)

Then, scroll down the `Settings` page until you see the `Lock Screen` section.

![](/LockScreenSet2.png)

Choose and enter a numerical PIN up to 10 digits in length in the PIN box, and click on `Set`.

## How to lock your screen

You can now activate the Lock Screen feature in two ways:

> 1. Hit `Ctrl-l` on your keyboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Hit `Ctrl-L` on your keyboard.
```

2. On the top/left menu bar, click on `File`, then `Lock Screen`.

Your wallet is now locked to anyone who does not have your PIN.

To unlock, just enter the correct PIN in the provided box.

![](/LockedScreen.png)

## How to clear your Lock Screen PIN

If you wish to delete or change your PIN:

1. Go to the top/left menu bar and click on `Tools`, then `Settings`.
2. Scroll down the `Settings` page to the Lock Screen section.
3. Enter your PIN in the PIN box, and click `Clear`.
4. If a new PIN is desired, enter it in the PIN box and click `Set`, otherwise the `Lock Screen` feature is now disabled.

## If you forget your PIN

If you have forgotten your PIN, you can delete it with these steps:

> 1. Shut down your Wasabi wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Shut down Wasabi Wallet.
```

> 2. Open your UIConfig.json file using a text editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Open your `UIConfig.json` file using a text editor.
```

This file can be found here:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
{
  "title": "Lock Screen",
  "description": "A feature that allows you to lock your Wasabi Wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."
}
---

# Lock Screen

The `Lock Screen` feature allows you to lock your Wasabi Wallet from being viewed or used while it is running, and then unlock it at any time with a user-specified PIN.

[[toc]]

:::warning Caution!
This feature is only intended to be used if you are stepping away from your computer for a very short time.

> The PIN can be deleted and your wallet accessed by anyone that gets physical access to your computer and knows how to find and alter your UIConfig.json file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The PIN can be deleted and your wallet accessed by anyone that gets physical access to your computer and knows how to find and alter your `UIConfig.json` file.
```

Do not treat this feature as a strong, fail-safe lock on your wallet.
:::

## How to set the Lock Screen feature

You can active the `Lock Screen` feature by going to the menu bar on the top/left corner of your Wasabi Wallet and clicking on `Tools`.
In the resulting dropdown menu, click on `Settings`.

![](/LockScreenSet1.png)

Then, scroll down the `Settings` page until you see the `Lock Screen` section.

![](/LockScreenSet2.png)

Choose and enter a numerical PIN up to 10 digits in length in the PIN box, and click on `Set`.

## How to lock your screen

> You can now activate the Lock Screen feature in two ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can now lock your screen in two ways:
```

1. Hit `Ctrl-L` on your keyboard.
2. On the top/left menu bar, click on `File`, then `Lock Screen`.

Your wallet is now locked to anyone who does not have your PIN.

To unlock, just enter the correct PIN in the provided box.

![](/LockedScreen.png)

## How to clear your Lock Screen PIN

If you wish to delete or change your PIN:

1. Go to the top/left menu bar and click on `Tools`, then `Settings`.

> 2. Scroll down the `Settings` page to the Lock Screen section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Scroll down the `Settings` page to the `Lock Screen` section.
```

3. Enter your PIN in the PIN box, and click `Clear`.
4. If a new PIN is desired, enter it in the PIN box and click `Set`, otherwise the `Lock Screen` feature is now disabled.

## If you forget your PIN

If you have forgotten your PIN, you can delete it with these steps:

1. Shut down Wasabi Wallet.
2. Open your `UIConfig.json` file using a text editor.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> This file can be found here:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This file can be found in [Wasabi's Data Folder](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#where-can-i-find-the-wasabi-data-folder).
```

Author: Why send the user to a different part of the website just to get the info that is next on this page?
The info here is copy/pasted from that same FAQ page

Reviewer 3: What if we have to change anything in that copy-pasted text? then we have to do it everywhere we copy-pasted it.

Also should we then remove all the links from every page and pull all the info in one place to not send the user to a different part?

If a reader knows what `UIConfig.json` file is and where to find it then they don't have to read that part, but if they don't they can open that link and see what it is.

Author: Ok....I can go with that.
Thank you.

Reviewer 3: Thank you.

> * Windows: `/Users/{your username}/AppData/Roaming/WalletWasabi/Client`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> * Linux: `/Home/.walletwasabi/client`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> * MacOS: `/Users/{your username}/.walletwasabi/client`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> :::tip

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> You need to mark the “show hidden files” setting to see it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Find the line at the bottom of this file called `LockScreenPinHash`, and delete the string of characters that are between the two quotation marks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Find `LockScreenPinHash` at the bottom of this file, and delete the string of characters that are between the two quotation marks.
```
